WIP: Feature/en/ jssdk4] introduction to display rules (#159)
MapsIndoors/mapsindoors.github.io: collections/_web/v4/guides/simple_map.md

---
title: Create a simple map with MapsIndoors
guide_title: guides
nav_weight: 200
published: true
date: 2019-09-30
---

## Overview

In this guide you will learn to load a Google map with a MapsIndoors map on top. The full code example is shown in the JSFiddle below, but will be run through bit by bit in this guide.

<script async src="https://jsfiddle.net/mapspeople/resg59jp/embed/html,result/"></script>

### Loading the MapsIndoors SDK

> The MapsIndoors SDK is loaded by using a script tag like so:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The MapsIndoors SDK is loaded by using a script tag like the one below:
```

```html
<script src="https://app.mapsindoors.com/mapsindoors/js/sdk/DevelopmentReleases/4.0.0-rc.1/mapsindoors-4.0.0-rc.1.js?apikey=YOUR_MAPSINDOORS_API_KEY"></script>
```
The `apikey` parameter contains your application's MapsIndoors API key.

> For IE11 it's critical to load the MapsIndoors SDK before the Google Maps API due to some conflicting polyfills.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For IE11 it's critical to load the MapsIndoors SDK before the Google Maps API due to conflicting polyfills.
```

### Loading the Google Maps JavaScript API

> The Google Maps API is loaded by using a script tag like so:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Google Maps API is loaded by using a script tag like the one below:
```

```html
<script src="https://maps.googleapis.com/maps/api/js?libraries=geometry&key=YOUR_GOOGLE_API_KEY"></script>
```

> The `libraries` parameter is for loading additional libraries for Google Maps. The MapsIndoors SDK has a dependency on the geometry library.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `libraries` parameter is for loading additional libraries Google Maps libraries such as XXX. The MapsIndoors SDK has a dependency on the geometry library.
```

Reviewer: XXX skal selvfølgelig erstattes af nogle eksempler på libraries 2-3 stk, hvis det giver mening:) Ellers slet "such as"

Author: Jeg mener ikke vi skal give eksempler på andet en det som MapsIndoors SDK'et er afhængig af.
```suggestion
The `libraries` parameter is for loading additional libraries for the Google Maps API. The MapsIndoors SDK is dependent on the geometry library from Google.
```

> The `libraries` parameter is for loading additional libraries for the Google Maps API. The MapsIndoors SDK is dependent on the geometry library from Google.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `libraries` parameter is for loading additional libraries for the Google Maps API. The MapsIndoors SDK is dependent on the Geometry Library from Google.

```

> The `key` parameter contains your application's Google Maps API key. Look [here](https://developers-dot-devsite-v2-prod.appspot.com/maps/documentation/javascript/get-api-key) For more information about how to obtain a key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `key` parameter contains your Google Maps API key. Look [here](https://developers-dot-devsite-v2-prod.appspot.com/maps/documentation/javascript/get-api-key) For more information about how to obtain a key.
```

### Setting up the MapView

```javascript
const mapView = new mapsindoors.mapView.GoogleMapsView({
    element: document.getElementById("map"),
    center: {
        lat: 38.8976067,
        lng: -77.0365872,
    },
    zoom: 19,
    maxZoom: 21,
});
```
- Element is the DOM element on the page that will contain the map. `document.getElementById('map')`
- Center is the geographical point on which the map is centered.
- Zoom is the initial zoom level the map will be displayed at.

> - The `maxZoom` parameter is set to disable the map from zooming further in that level 21.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `maxZoom` parameter is set to disable the map from zooming further in that level 21, which is the current maximum.
```

> - Element is the DOM element on the page that will contain the map. `document.getElementById('map')`
> - Center is the geographical point on which the map is centered.
> - Zoom is the initial zoom level the map will be displayed at.
> - The `maxZoom` parameter is set to disable the map from zooming further in that level 21, which is the current maximum.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

- `element` is the DOM element on the page that will contain the map. `document.getElementById('map')`
- `center` is the geographical point on which the map is centered.
- `zoom` is the initial zoom level the map will be displayed at.
- The `maxZoom` parameter is set to disable the map from zooming further in that level 21, which is the current maximum.
```

### Initializing MapsIndoors

```javascript
const mapsIndoors = new mapsindoors.MapsIndoors({
    mapView: mapView,
});
```

> Now we create a new instance of the MapsIndoors class and assign the GoogleMapsView to the `mapView` parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A new instance of the MapsIndoors class is created and assigns the GoogleMapsView to the `mapView` parameter.
```

### Adding a Floor Selector

```javascript
const googleMap = mapView.getMap();
const floorSelector = document.createElement("div");
new mapsindoors.FloorSelector(floorSelector, mapsIndoors);
googleMap.controls[google.maps.ControlPosition.RIGHT_TOP].push(floorSelector);
```

> A reference to the Google Map is obtained by calling getMap on the MapView.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

A reference to the Google Map is obtained by calling `getMap` on the `mapView`.

```

> The FloorSelector is created by calling the `new mapsindoors.FloorSelector(floor selector, mapsIndoors);` passing in a DOM element and an instance of MapsIndoors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `floorSelector` is created by calling the `new mapsindoors.FloorSelector(floor selector, mapsIndoors);` passing in a DOM element and an instance of MapsIndoors.

```

> This `googleMap.controls[google.maps.ControlPosition.RIGHT_TOP].push(floorSelector);` adds the floor selector to the maps upper right corner as a map control.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`googleMap.controls[google.maps.ControlPosition.RIGHT_TOP].push(floorSelector);` adds the floor selector to upper right corner of the map as a map control.
```

> `googleMap.controls[google.maps.ControlPosition.RIGHT_TOP].push(floorSelector);` adds the floor selector to upper right corner of the map as a map control.
> 
> ---

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`googleMap.controls[google.maps.ControlPosition.RIGHT_TOP].push(floorSelector);` adds the Floor Selector to upper right corner of the map as a map control.
```
